大学英语(三)期末复习题
第一部分:交际用语
此部分有 15 个未完成的对话,每个对话中未完成的部分有 4 个选项,
请从 A、B、C、D 中选出最佳一项填入空白处。
1. --Hello, may I speak to Mr. Li?
--_______________
A. Yes, speaking. Who is it please?
B. I don’t know you.
C. Sorry.
D. Why
2. --Excuse me. I wonder if you could help me with this suitcase. I just
want to put it on the top rack.
-- ________
A. OK, I don’t care.
B. Fine, I agree
C. Sure, no problem.
D. Why don’t I?
3. –Good evening. This is Kevin Restaurant.
--____________
A. Nice to meet you.
B. May I help you?
C. Thank you.
D. Hello. I’d like to make a reservation.
4. -- Hey, how was your vacation?
--Too bad. I broke my arm when skiing and had to come back home.
-- ____________
A. I feel heartbreaking for you.
B. Oh, no. How awful!
C. Oh, how shameful!
D. I don’t like what you said.
5 . –What does the weather forecast say?
--______________
A. It says I’m fine.
B. It says it is going to snow.
C. It says the traffic will turn better.
D. It says OK.
6. –It’s a fine day, isn’t it?
1--_____________
A. I don’t agree with you.
B. I’m fine.
C. Fine.
D. Sure it is.
7. –Can you have supper with me?
--______________
A. I can help you.
B. Yes, we can.
C. Yes, I’d like to.
D. Thank you so much.
8. –May I take your order, sir?
--_______________
A. What’s wrong?
B. Can I help you?
C. I’m sorry to hear that.
D. Wait a minute, please.
9. –Can I have a look at that bag?
--_______________
A. Thank you.
B. You must leave.
C. That’s OK.
D. Of course.
10. --Have you made a reservation?
--_________________
A. Yes, I have.
B. Sorry, I did.
C. Yes, I will.
D. Thank you.
11. –How long do you intend to stay?
--_________________
A. Four days.
B. Not at all.
C. Four meters.
D. Very much.
12.—What time is breakfast?
--_______________
A. Breakfast is ready.
B. I had my breakfast at 7 am.
C. From 7 to 9 am.
D. Tomorrow morning.
13. –Would you like to go to the concert with me?
--_______________
A. Yes, I’d love to.
2B. I like music.
C. I’m fine.
D. How are you doing?
14. --Could you give me a chance to invite you?
--______________
A. Let’s go.
B. Yes, I do.
C. Sure. I will call you later.
D. I’m doing OK.
15. –Excuse me. Can you help me, officer?
--______________
A. Thank you.
B. Bye! Enjoy yourselves!
C. Oh, I certainly hope so.
D. I have no idea.
第二部分:阅读理解
此部分共有 6 篇短文,每篇短文后面有 5 个问题。请从每个问题后的 A、B、
C、D 四个选项中,选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。
Passage 1
Watching TV is a very popular pastime in the UK, but what kind of
programs do British people like to watch? Well, the most-watched TV
programs every week are very popular dramas that are usually on at
least four times every week. They are dramas based on one
neighborhood that try to depict ordinary life in the UK--We call these
dramas "soap operas" or "soaps".
In the early days of TV, there were often dramas on during the day.
Back in those days, it was traditional for the husband to go out to
work and for the wife to stay at home and look after the house and the
children. Most of these daytime dramas were aimed at entertaining
the housewives who would traditionally be at home, probably doing
the washing. Companies selling washing powder would advertise
their products at times when these dramas were on, and sometimes
those companies would even sponsor the drama. Hence the word
"soap" came into use.
So what about the word "opera"? Well, that's because these
dramas are often an exaggeration of real life. They are supposed to
represent, ordinary lives but to make them entertaining, lots of
3dramatic events like murders, divorces, affairs etc. all happen
probably much more regularly than they would in a normal
neighborhood.
1. The most-watched TV programs in the UK are “soap operas”.
A. T
B. F
2. These dramas are called “soap operas” because housewives like
using soaps.
A. T
B. F
3. In the early days of TV, there were no dramas on in the evening.
A. T
B. F
4. These “soap operas” are often an exaggeration of real life.
A. T
B. F
5. Dramatic events like murders, divorces, etc. do not happen very
often in real life.
A. T
B. F
Passage 2
Crime has its own cycles, a magazine reported some years ago.
Police records that were studied for five years from over 2,400 cities
and towns show a surprising link between changes in the season and
crime patterns in UK.
The pattern of crime has varied very little over a long period of
years. Murder reaches its high during July and August, as do rape and
other violent attacks. Murder, moreover, is more than seasonal: it is a
weekend crime. It is also a nighttime crime: 62 percent of murders are
committed between 6 p. m. and 6 a. m.
Unlike the summer high in crimes of bodily harm, burglary has a
different cycle. You are most likely to be robbed between 6 p. m. and 2
a. m. on a Saturday night in December, January or February. The most
uncriminal month of all is May; however, more dog bites are reported
in this month than in any other month of the year.
On the other hand, our intellectual seasonal cycles are
completely different from our criminal tendencies. Professor
Huntington, of the Foundation for the Study of Cycles, made
extensive studies to discover the seasons when people read serious
books, attend scientific meetings, make the highest scores on
examinations, and propose the most changes to patents. In all
instances, he found a spring peak and an autumn peak separated by
a summer low. On the other hand, Professor Huntington's studies
4indicated that June is the peak month for suicides and admissions to
mental hospitals. June is also a peak month for marriages!
6. The seasonal cycle of crime patterns is proved by_________.
A. the figures in police records
B. 2,400 cities and towns
C. a magazine report
D. the studies by police officers
7. According to paragraph 2, a murder would most possibly occur on
_________.
A. a weekday morning in spring
B. a weekday morning in autumn
C. a weekend night in summer
D. a weekend night in winter
8. What makes May a special month of the year?
A. All types of crimes happen in May.
B. There is no crime happened in May.
C. Criminals increase in number in May.
D. Dog attacks are most frequent in May.
9. Which behavior is NOT an example of human intellectual activities?
A. Reading books on philosophy.
B. Attending wedding ceremony.
C. Working on mathematics questions.
D. Innovating engineering machinery.
10. According to Professor Huntington’s study, June is the peak month
when people _________.
A. get divorced
B. recover from mental illness
C. try to kill themselves
D. climb high and low mountains
Passage 3
Cars are an important part of life in the United States. Without a
car most people feel that they are poor. And even if a person is poor
he doesn't feel really poor when he had a car.
Henry Ford was the man who first started making cars in large
numbers. He probably didn't know how much the car was going to
affect American culture. The car made the United Stated a nation on
wheels. And it helped make the United States what it is today.
5There are three main reasons why the car becomes so popular in
the United States. First of all, the country is a huge one and
Americans like to move around in it. The car provides the most
comfortable and cheapest form of transportation. With a car people
can go anyplace without spending a lot of money.
The second reason cars are popular is the fact that the United
States never really developed an efficient and inexpensive form of
public transportation. Long-distance trains have never been as
common in the country as they are in other parts of the world.
Nowadays there is a good system of air-service provided by planes.
But it is too expensive to be used frequently.
The third reason is the most important one, though. The
American spirit of independence is what really made cars popular.
Americans don't like to wait for a bus, or a train or even a plane. They
don' t like to have to follow an exact schedule. A car gives them the
freedom to schedule their own time. And this is the freedom that
Americans want most to have.
The gas shortage has caused a big problem for Americans. But
the answer will not be a bigger system of public transportation. The
real solution will have to be a new kind of car, one that does not use
so much gas.
11. Most Americans feel they are poor when they ________.
A. have no job
B. have no food
C. have no money
D. have no car
12. Henry Ford was the first to ________ cars in large numbers.
A. invent
B. sell
C. have
D. produce
13.“A nation on wheels” means that ________.
A. the country is producing the best cars in the world
B. everyone in this country owns a car
C. cars play a very important role in people' lives
D. there are more cars than trains in this country
14. With a car people can go ________ easily.
A. anywhere
B. to anyplace
C. to anywhere
D. any place
15. The real solution to the gas shortage problem is ________.
A. to make less cars
6B. to develop a public transportation system
C. to make gas-saving cars
D. to develop train service
Passage 4
Why don't birds get lost on their long flights from one place to
another? Scientists have puzzled over this question for a long time.
Now they're starting to fill in the blanks.
Not long ago, experiments showed that birds use the sun to guide
them during daylight hours. How do birds fly at night? Tests with
artificial stars have proved that certain night-flying birds are able to
follow the stars in their long-distance flights.www.Examda.CoM
A dove had spent its lifetime in a cage and had never flown under
a natural sky. But it had an inborn ability to use the stars for guidance.
The bird's cage was placed under an artificial star-filled sky. The bird
tried to fly in the same direction as that taken by his outdoor cousins.
Any change in the position of the artificial stars caused a change in
the direction of his flight.考试大论坛
But the stars are apparently their main means of navigation(航
行). When the stars are hidden by clouds, they apparently find their
way by such landmarks ( 路 标 )as fiver courses, mountain ranges,
coast lines. But when it's too dark to see these things, the doves circle
helplessly, unable to find their way.来
源:考试大
16. The reasons why birds don't get lost on their long flights have only
recently been discovered.
A. T
B.F
17. During daylight hours, birds rely on the sun for guidance.
A. T
B. F
18. By “his outdoor cousins” the author means doves under the
natural sky.
A. T
B.F
19. The experiment with the dove indicates that a bird that has been
caged will not fly long distances.
A. T
B. F
20. In total darkness, doves can fly back home.
A. T
B. F
7Passage 5
As we know, if we want to keep our healthy and have a strong body,
our eating habits are very important in our daily life. There 'are times
when most of us would rather eat sweets and ice cream than meat
and rice. Actually, sweets and ice cream are not bad for the stomach
if we eat them at the end of a meal. If we eat them before a meal,
they may take away our appetite. Meanwhile, it is important for us to
eat our meal at the same time each day. When we feel hungry, it
shows that our bodies need food. When we feel angry or excited, we
may not want to eat. When we are worried, we may not want to eat,
either. A long time ago, in England, some judges used to decide
whether a man was telling the truth by giving him some dry bread. If
the man could not swallow the bread, it was a sign that he wasn't
telling the truth. Although this seems very strange and rather foolish,
it is indeed an excellent way of finding out the truth. A man who is
worrying about something has difficulty in swallowing anything dry.
He loses his appetite and does not want to eat anything if he is
worrying something.
21. We have to develop good eating habits because ________.
A. we want to be healthy and strong
B. we want to enjoy our food
C. we want to eat more
D. we want to save time
22. ________ may take away our appetite before we have our meal.
A. Either meat or rice
B. Neither sweets nor ice cream
C. Not only meat but also rice
D. Both sweets and ice cream
23. We had better have our meals ________.
A. when our work is over
B. at the same time each day
C. when the meal is still hot
D. when we go back home
24. A man who is angry has ________.
A. a better appetite
B. to eat more food
C. a poor appetite
D. to eat nothing
25. The judges in old England considered that a man could ________ if
he didn't tell a truth.
A. swallow dry bread easily
B. eat a lot of dry bread
8C. drink milk or hot water
D. hardly swallow dry bread
Passage 6
Shopping for clothes is not the same experience for a man as it is
for a woman. A man goes shopping because he needs something. His
purpose is settled and decided in advance. He knows what he wants,
and his objective is to find it and buy it;the price is a secondary
consideration. All men simply walk into a shop and ask the assistant
for what they want. If the shop has it in stock, the salesman promptly
produces it, and the business of trying it on proceeds at once. All
being well, the deal can be and often is completed in less than five
minutes, with hardly any chat and to everyone's satisfaction.
For a man, slight problems may begin when the shop does not
have what he wants, or does not have exactly what he wants. In that
case the salesman, as the name implies, tries to sell the customer
something else—he offers the nearest he can to the article required.
No good salesman brings out such a substitute bluntly;he does so
with skill and polish: “I know this jacket is not the style you want, sir,
but would you like to try it for size? It happens to be the color you
mentioned. ” Few men have patience with this treatment, and the
usual response is:“This is the right colour and may be the right size,
but I should be wasting my time and yours by trying it on.”
Now how does a woman go about buying clothes? In almost every
respect she does so in the opposite way. Her shopping is not often
based on need. She has never fully made up her mind what she wants,
and she is only “ having a look round ” .She is always open to
persuasion; indeed she sets great store by what the saleswoman tells
her, even by what companions tell her. She will try on any number of
things. Uppermost in her mind is the thought of finding something
that everyone thinks suits her. Contrary to a lot of jokes, most women
have an excellent sense of value when they buy clothes. They are
always on the lookout for the unexpected bargain. Faced with a
roomful of dresses, a woman may easily spend an hour going from
one rail to another, to and often retracing ( 折 回 ) her steps, before
selecting the dresses she wants to try on. It is a laborious process, but
apparently an enjoyable one. Most dress shops provide chairs for the
waiting husbands.
26.When a man is buying clothes, he does not mind how much he has
to pay for the right things.
A. T
B. F
27. When the shop offers the nearest to the article required, men are
9not easily persuaded to buy the recommended one.
A. T
B. F
28. In commerce a good salesman is one who sells something a
customer does not particularly want.
A. T
B. F
29. Women shoppers don’t welcome suggestions from anyone when
they make their purchasing decisions for clothes.
A. T
B. F
30. What is the most obvious difference between men and women
shoppers is the time they take over buying clothes.
A. T
B. F
第三部分:词汇与结构
针对每个句子中未完成的部分有 4 个选项,请从 A、B、C、D 四个选项中,
选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。
1. Can you ______ your visit for a few days more?
A. enlarge
B. expand
C. explore
D. extend
2. They thought the program was _______ investigating.
A. worth
B. worthy
C. worthwhile D. worthing
3. When I got home, my little brother was _____.
A. slept
B. sleep
C. asleep
D. to sleep
4. I’ll give you a ring if Mike ______ tomorrow.
A. comes
B. will come
C. came
D. is coming
5. I studied at Cambridge at the same time as ______.
A. he was
B. he did
C. he is
D. he were
6. The bridge which _______ in 1937 was well protected by the local
people.
A. is built
B. was built
C. had been built
D. would be
built
7. Tom wanted to play basketball, _______, it was raining and he
stayed at home.
A. however
B. or
C. and
D. but
8. He said that ______ arrive at Beijing at 7 o’clock.
A. he would
B. I could
C. they will
D. we shall
9. I know someone else ______ father works in Beijing.
A. who
B. which
C. why
D. whose
10. I’ll give you my telephone number, _____ you can call me when you
arrive here.
A. so that
B. such that
C. in order that
D. so as that
11. We knew _______ the earth is a part of the solar system.
10A. how
B. which
C. that
D. what
12. This is the most exciting film ______ I have ever seen.
A. which
B. that
C. as
D. since
13. Is this the restaurant ______ during the summer vacation?
A. for which you have worked
B. in which you worked
C. which you have worked on
D. where you worked in
14. The computer, ________ is a 20 th century invention, has created
great technological changes.
A. that
B. what
C. which
D. when
15. _______ had Jane reached school than the bell rang.
A. No sooner
B. Only
C. Hardly
D. No matter when
第四部分:完形填空
以下 3 篇短文,每篇短文中包括 5 个未完成的句子,针对每个句子中空缺
部分有 5 个选项,请从 A、B、C、D、E 五个选项中,选出可以填入空白处的最
佳选项。
Passage 1
From childhood to old age, we all use language as a means of
broadening our knowledge of ourselves and the world about us. When
humans first evolved, they were like newborn children, unable to use
this valuable tool. Yet once language developed, the possibilities for
human kinds future attainments and cultural growth increased.
Many linguists believe that evolution is ___1___ for our ability to
produce and use language. They claim that our highly evolved brain
provides us __2___ an innate language ability not found in lower
organizations. Proponents of this innateness theory say that our
___3____ for language is inborn, but that language itself develops
gradually, ___4___ a function of the growth of the brain during
childhood. Therefore there are critical biological times for language
development.
Current reviews of innateness theory are mixed, however,
evidence supporting the existence of some innate abilities is
undeniable. Indeed, more and more schools are discovering that
foreign languages are best taught in the lower grades. Young children
often can learn several languages by being ___5__ to them, while
adults have a much harder time learning another language once the
rules of their first language have become firmly fixed.
11A. potential
as
B. with
C. exposed
D. responsible
E.
Passage2
Human needs seem endless. ___6__a hungry man gets a meal, he
begins to think about an overcoat, when a manager gets a new sports
car, a big house and pleasure boats dance into view.
The many needs of mankind might be ____7____as making up
several levels. When there is money enough to satisfy one level of
needs, another level appears.
The first and most basic level of needs involves food. Once this
level is satisfied, the second level of needs, clothing and some sort of
shelter, appears. By the end of World War I1, these needs were
satisfied ___8___a great majority of Americans. Then a third level
appeared. It included such items as automobiles and new houses.
By 1957 or 1958 this third level of needs was fairly well satisfied.
Then, in the late 1950s, a fourth level of needs appeared: the
"life-enriching" level. While the other levels ___9___physical
satisfaction, that is the feed in comfort, safety, and transportation,
this level stresses mental needs for recognition, achievement, and
happiness. It includes a ___10__ of goods and services, many of which
could be called "luxury" items. Among them are vacation trips, the
best medical and dental care, and recreation. Also included here are
fancy goods and the latest styles in clothing.
A. involve
B. variety
C. when
D. for
E. regarded
Passage 3
There are many different ways to spend our free time.
Almost everyone has some kind of___11__: it may be something
from collecting stamps to making model planes. Some hobbies are
very expensive but others don’t ___12___anything at all. Some
collections are worth a lot of money, while others are valuable only to
their owners.
I know a man who has a coin collection worth several thousands
of dollars. A short time ago he bought a rare fifty-cent piece which
cost him $250! He was very happy about this collection and thought
the price was all right. On the other hand, my youngest brother
collects match boxes. He had almost 600 of them, but I wonder if they
are ___13___any money. However, to my brother they are quite
valuable. ___14___ makes him happier than to find a new match box
for his __15__.
12A. worth
B. nothing
C. collection
D. cost
E. hobby
第五部分:英译汉
请把下列英文句子翻译成中文。
1.
2.
3.
4.
He found a niche in the academic world.
Doctors connect crime with mental disorder.
We all hope to live in a world of peace, harmony and amity.
The wish of fully utilizing the natural resources will eventually
come true.
5. The child was accustomed to having her way.
6. We should pay more attention to the conservation of rare animals.
7. For one word a man is often deemed to be foolish or wise.
8. The dog has transferred its affection to its new master.
9. Some old men are too sensitive to their health.
10. He was shivering from fear as if he had seen a ghost.
11. We belong to the same world and we share the same aspirations
and dreams.
12. As the show progresses, viewers vote for their favorite singers and
the number of singers goes down until only one is left.
13. But unfortunately, it is also Americans that are suffering the crisis
of confidence more than any country in the world.
14. These motions cause the soil to lift up into the air where it will be
blown away.
15. Motivational speakers charge thousands of dollars to impart this
kind of training to corporate executives and staff.
第六部分 写作
根据下面所给的题目和提纲用英语写出一篇不少于 80 词的短文。
题目一:Invitation Letter
请写一份邀请函,邀请你的同学王红参加同学聚会。注意邀请函的格式。
题目二: True Friends
1. 朋友在生活中有重要作用;
132. 有些人为了利益才交朋友;
3. 患难朋友才是真正的朋友。
题目三: Changes in My Life
1. 说明你人生的几大变化;
2. 变化的原因和对你的影响
大学英语(三)期末复习题参考答案
第一部分:
1-5 ACDBB
6-10 DCDDA
11-15 ACACC
第二部分:
1-5 ABBAA
21-25 ADBCD
6-10 ACD BC
11-15 DDCAC
26-30 ABABA
16-20 AAABB
第三部分:
1-5 DACAB
6-10 BAADA
11-15 CBBCA
第四部分:
1-5 DBAEC
6-10 CEDAB
11-15 EDABC
第五部分:
1. 他在学术界有了一席之地。
2. 医生认为犯罪与精神错乱有关。
3. 我们都希望生活在和平、和谐和友善的世界里。
144. 充分利用自然资源的愿望终究会实现。
5. 这个女孩已经习惯了一意孤行。
6. 我们应该更加注重保护稀有动物。
7. 一个人往往因为一个字眼而被判断为聪明或者愚蠢。
8. 那狗已把感情转译到新主人身上了。
9. 有些老年人对身体健康过于敏感。
10. 他恐惧得发抖,就好像看到了鬼一样。
11. 我们同属一个世界,我们拥有同样的希望和梦想。
12. 随着演出进行,观众都投票选出他们心怡的歌手,选手越来越少直至剩下最
后一人。
13. 但不幸的是,美国人民也正遭受着比世界上其他国家更严重的信任危机。
14. 空气的流动把土壤吹向空中,然后吹走。
15. 给公司行政人员和员工作培训的励志讲师,要收取上万美元的课酬才会传授
这些经验。
第六部分:
写作提示: 题目一:本文为书信类写作。
Hello,Wanghong !
This weekend I will hold a party at home so I would like you to
come .We will have a big dinner with many friends .And we will play
games ,watch videos and play cards.After the party we will listen to
some music and dance to it.At the party you can also meet some our
former friends and they will give us a surprise.Some of our friends will
give us some performances.Some will sing ,some will play the music
and others will perform magic .How about you I think we will have a
good time then.So I wish you to attend my party from bottom of my
heart.
15I am looking forward to your
coming !
题目二:本文为人物类写作。
题目三:本文为说明文写作。
16